---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
---

The population increase exerts tremendous pressure on our healthcare systems and
agricultural needs. Imaging methodologies are increasingly used to aid diagnoses
and to build image-driven physiological models in the natural and life sciences.
However, the explosion of the amount of data cannot be met by the current
approaches used to analyse the generated images/volumes/movies and unravel the
complicated patterns that exist. Our mission, is to address these limitations by
integrating the state of the art in computer vision, and machine (deep learning)
learning. Our unique approach has the potential to provide efficient and
affordable solutions towards sustainable healthcare systems and agriculture, of
immense benefit and importance to society.

## Challenge 1: Population increase puts pressure on our healthcare systems
<img style="float: right;" src="{{ base_path }}/assets/images/cardiacAI.png">

Every day thousands of people are born in the under-developed world without
access to basic healthcare, while at the same time in the developed world, the
population is ageing with an increasing cost of access to good healthcare. We
need new imaging and image analysis methods to help bring down the cost of
image-based diagnostics, help unravel the mysteries behind several killer
diseases, and eventually predict onset of disease.

We work on several aspects of medical image analysis, but central to our
approach is the problem of representation learning and trying to *do more with
less*, by building algorithms that can leverage unsupervised data
(semi-supervised learning) and also the relationship between different tasks
(multi-task learning).

## Challenge 2: Population increase puts pressure on our planet's sustainability and agricultural needs
<img style="float: right;" src="{{ base_path }}/assets/images/plant_pheno.png">

Remarkably we seem to worry so much about our well being and health, but we are
forgetting that without access to food and water, we cannot survive. The rapidly
increasing human population combined with the "threat" of global warming,
necessitate that we increase food production, reduce our carbon footprint,
decrease waste and chemical pollution, and discover alternative sources of
energy and materials.

Plants have always been a crucial source of food, feed, fiber, and fuel and thus
the **agriculture industry** reflects a large portion of economic output.
Together with the breeding industry, researchers try to identify, improve, and
breed key traits to satisfy the growing demands, increase resistance to
parasites and diseases, reduce environmental impact (less water, less
fertilizer), always striving for a more sustained agriculture.

Our group has consistently contributed with [open
data](https://www.plant-phenotyping.org/datasets-home), open software and
hardware frameworks ([Phenotiki](http://phenotiki.com/)), and robust and
innovative [algorithms](http://tsaftaris.com/publications.html) to the problem
of estimating phenotypic traits from images. 
